Thank you all so much for joining us today.
Happy Thursday.
Nice to see everybody at the Data Science Hangout.
If this is your first time here today, so nice to meet you, but thank you all for spending
the Thursday with us.
If we haven't met yet, I'm Rachel Dempsey.
I host the Hangout and lead customer marketing at Posit.
This is our open space to chat about data science leadership, questions you're facing
and getting to hear what's going on in the world of data across different industries.
So we're here every Thursday at the same time, same place, except the week after next, we'll
be at the Posit Conference in Chicago.
So we won't have a hangout that week.
But I'm excited to get to meet so many of you there in person.
But anyways, if you're watching this recording at some point in the future on YouTube, and
you are thinking, I want to join them live, you can use the link below and the details
to add it to your calendar too.
But at the Hangout, we're all dedicated to making this a welcoming environment for everybody.
We love to hear from everyone, no matter your years of experience, titles, industry or languages
that you work in too.
And every week, I'm joined by a different leader from the community who joins to share
their experience and answer questions from you all.
So it is totally okay if you want to just listen in here.
Maybe you're on your lunch break, or you're kind of having to multitask.
But there's always three ways you can jump in and ask questions too, or provide your
own perspective.
So you can raise your hand on Zoom, and I'll keep an eye out.
You can put questions in the Zoom chat, and feel free to just put a little star next to
it if it's something you want me to read instead.
And then we also have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously.
And Caitlin, if you don't mind sharing that in the chat right now that oh, Hannah got
it already.
Awesome.
Thank you.
But you can ask questions anonymously there as well.
But with all that, thanks again so much for joining us.
I am so excited to be joined by my co-host today, Colonel Chris Saling, Director of Innovation
at U.S. Army Human Resources Command.
And Chris, I'd love to kick things off with maybe having you introduce yourself and sharing
a little bit about your role today, and something you like to do outside of work too.
No, that sounds good, and thank you so much for that, Rachel.
So as you said, I'm the Director of Innovation for U.S. Army Human Resources Command, and
everybody always tries to figure out what that is.
Innovation has become a buzzword.
We always talk about innovation theater and everything else.
Our job is to be a little bit of a future concept cell for the commanding general so
that we can be a little bit more removed from the daily asks and asks and figure out how
we're going to take and update and sometimes transform our processes to get after those
future concepts.
So I have a team that is predominantly technologists.
I have a lot of data scientists.
I have a cyber guy.
I have a networks guy.
I have a human resources digital transformation subject matter expert and a recruiting team.
And that's just the start of us.
We're a year old, and I think we're going to expand by another 10 positions or so this
coming year.
That's great.
Thank you.
And outside of work, what's something you like to do?
I like to cook.
So to me, that's my zen.
I'll put on some music, and I'll go in the kitchen and cook something.
Nice.
So I know you said this is a new team here.
Can you share a little bit about how the creation of that team came to be and maybe how you
work with some other departments across the Army too?
Yeah.
No, it really kind of started when I was working in, just for some context, I've been working
out of the Army people space for seven going on eight years now, which is kind of atypical.
But a lot of what we've been doing is digital modernization and transformation.
The Army came out with the Army People Strategy, I want to say, in 2019 or early 2020, that
talked about how we wanted to modernize how we did talent management, pushed a lot, did
a lot of different pilots and prototypes, got a bunch of policies changed.
We did some great stuff there and then realized that we hadn't modernized the mechanisms to
actually get us to talent management.
We were still basically assigning people and moving people around using the same old systems,
and a lot of them really needed to be updated.
So we needed a way to look out and see how we could do that cohesively rather than just
looking at the individual processes of the directorates.
So General Drew made the decision that he was going to establish the innovation cell
to solidify our HRC 2030 vision that we have, and to look at how we're going to step forward
in our technology and our business practices to achieve it.
I see.
Katherine, you had a question in the chat, do you want to jump in here first?
It was really just a question on whether or not all of the people on your team are
in active duty in the military, or if some of those are also GS positions, or what your
team makeup looks like.
Yeah, it's military and civilian.
Right now, we're mostly military just because I took my team, I realigned my team that I
have for talent management with me, but we've made a couple civilian hires and we're going
to make a number of other civilian hires.
So a question I had wanted to ask you about is, Caitlin and I were talking about how you've
managed to kind of break silos between the different army departments and getting people
to work together to help achieve the team's vision.
And I was just wondering, like, how have you been able to do that?
And what tips do you have for some of us who are maybe trying to do the same thing and
break silos within our own organizations?
Yeah, I mean, one of the biggest skills that we, we harp a lot on command in the military,
but that's not the most important leadership skill.
One of the most important things that we consider is building coalitions, you know, how do you
reach out to your counterparts and get a whole bunch of people crashing together on a common
goal or a common understanding?
I think one of the places we've had the biggest success with that is with our data literacy
program.
As we had a lot of people with needs, we had a lot of people who are looking for more data,
and we were able to pull people from throughout the army to look at this as a project and
get it scaled up.
So now it's part of our professional military education.
Thank you.
I think Mike's question there kind of touches on this as well.
Mike, do you want to expand on that?
Yeah, and actually, I think you answered part of it, but, you know, you're, you're, as you're
building your team, and this is a kind of question that we hear a lot at Data Science
Hangout, did those team members already have data science skills, or are they having to
learn as they go?
So I had a mix.
One I hired straight out of grad school out of the Georgetown Data Science Program.
Another I hired from Notre Dame, the Computer Science Program.
So they had a number of different data skills, they had to, you know, kind of cross train
into other areas of emphasis.
Obviously, natural language processing and texturing analysis is big when you're in the
people space.
One of them came in with a lot of those skills, the others are having to learn it.
And then I have a couple other folks who were very good statistical analysts, didn't
have the same kind of experience in building out some of the applications we were building.
So we're using a number of different kind of training programs, upscaling, pair coding,
to try to get them set on that.
Then I do have some folks who come in straight from the HR side, very limited exposure to
data and data science.
And it gave me an opportunity to kind of test our data literacy training on them to get
them to ask more, you know, intelligent data questions.
Not that they weren't asking intelligent questions, but there's less translation needed between
them and our data folks.
I'm sure I'll follow up questions in a minute, but I'll come back to you.
Patrick, I see you just put a question in the chat.
Want to jump in here?
Yeah, thank you, Rachel.
It's sort of a follow up to what you just said, Kirsten.
Thank you for being here.
I'm fascinated by this.
You mentioned text analysis and NLP.
What are your key data sources for bringing that in to the analytic pipeline and then
also other data sources, more quantitatively focused stuff?
So we use a number of different kind of commercial products.
We'll use Hugging Face.
We'll use a number of other things you guys are probably familiar with to help us at least
kind of break down our taxonomies.
But most of the work that we're doing comes from our evaluation entry system, where we
are looking at evaluations.
We're looking at duty descriptions.
We're looking at how we establish our taxonomies and ontologies for job competencies.
There are a lot of libraries out there that we could build, but there's not really a spacey
library out there for military competency.
So we've had to build, practically build our own.
Does that kind of answer your question?
Yeah, thank you.
My answer was all over the place.
No, that's awesome.
And it's wonderful work you all are doing.
So thank you very much.
No, thank you.
I'm going to go back to the conversation about breaking down silos a bit.
Luke had asked in the chat, in such a gigantic operation, how have you been able to actually
break down those data silos to get what you need?
So the first step we had to do was convince senior leaders to be directive.
I mean, it's horrible to say, you think we're going to want to cooperate and share, but
nobody wants to cooperate and share their data.
So we went to the Secretary of the Army and said, I have a directive here that says all
the people in the people space will share their people data, period.
So it was our first people analytics core directive.
We've refreshed that a couple of times, and we've identified our person event data environment
as kind of being the semi-official repository for that data sharing.
We get a lot of people who are working in that environment.
It's probably something a lot of you will be familiar with.
It's just a massive data warehouse with a virtual machine environment on top of it that
we use to drop different data sets in to do different projects.
But yeah, no, we had to basically order everybody to share their data.
I'm trying to think how that might translate to some of these students here too.
Yeah.
Well, it's like, I mean, I think the biggest piece, we talked about building coalitions.
You know, there's going to be, we tried to do some data summits across the Army just
to bring people together and talk about what they were working on.
And man, it would be really cool if we could just get our hands on, well, there's probably
somebody in the room who knows how to get their hands on that data.
So we started this little bit of a coalition talking about, wouldn't it be great if we
could do all this?
And that's how we pitched the argument to leadership to say, look, we've got to, we've
got to get here.
We've got to be able to do this.
And we need your support and endorsement.
Ours was very directive.
But I think if you have a leader there who does give you that champion, that support
and endorsement, that might be a good corollary.
Definitely.
Colter, I see you had a question in the chat.
Want to jump in here next?
Sure.
Yeah.
And you actually just kind of answered it.
But I was wondering if, from your perspective, if you've seen similar data modernization
efforts happening, either within other commands, I'm thinking of like a futures command or
even within kind of individual branches within the Army, if there are similar efforts going
on.
Oh yeah.
So we've really got a, just, it warms my heart, data modernization trends.
Army Futures Command is a big partner.
Their data science division, Nate Parker over there is a big partner of ours in looking
at how we can get more agile data science.
I mean, I hate to say agile, not in terms of agile development, but something that'll
flex better into our different requirements.
So we're working with him and seeing if we can use that instead of our current environment.
We've reached out to 18th Airborne Corps who is using our Vantage program, which is built
on Palantir Foundry to do a lot of their work, a lot of their data work, informing decisions.
We've worked with the Army AI Integration Center that is now up at Carnegie Mellon.
We've had a lot of great partners in the West Point.
I can't leave out West Point.
Partner and good friend, Colonel Nick Clark, who started our data literacy training program
that we've kind of incorporated and taken Army-wide.
But yeah, and I think kind of coming back to finding those partners in the coalition,
as we figured out who all is working in this space, we've been able to kind of give each
other a hand up when people need resources or endorsement, and it's really made things
spread faster.
I know we touched on the data literacy program a few times, and I was just curious, like,
what does that program look like?
So the initial iteration was just 10 hours of coursework, basically making people better
critical consumers of data.
Oh, hey, Nate's here.
Yes, you've always got to give a shout out.
Making people better critical consumers of data.
That's expanded to about a 16-hour course that's going to be in kind of our basic professional
military education.
There's a second level that they're going to get in that next iteration, which is more
hands-on, using the common tools that you have available.
We'll start folks out just doing basic statistical analysis in Excel or whatever they have access
to.
We want to start introducing them into R and Python so that it's not scary.
We can learn how to code, share some of those resources.
So if they're interested or if their branch has opportunities, they go into level three,
which is where we take them into some in-depth analytic training.
That walks them through our data competency model, and we basically create learning paths
for all the different things that they want to do, if they want to get into different
types of coding, if they want to do more NLP.
I need more NLP programmers.
Yeah, that's always the fun part too, when you talk about NLP with a bunch of data scientists.
You know who your natural language processors are, and then you know who your optimizers
are because they're like, wait, what are you talking about melding your programs for?
That actually leads me to a question that was asked anonymously was, how much is R or
Python used in your organization?
So a majority of our folks are Python users just because of our Vantage program being
built on Foundry, which is PyJR and PySpark.
I've got a couple of folks who do use R fairly regularly doing their analysis.
We had a lot of people on kind of the more legacy programs, looking at SPSS and SAS,
not to disparage those, but they're expensive.
So we want people getting on things where they can more rapidly develop and share.
Like my team, we try to use as much of the existing language and share code as much as
possible, but it gets difficult.
I think somebody, I see Marlene's comment.
I think somebody brought it up earlier, the sensitive nature of the data that we're working
with.
I mean, most of our personnel data is unclassified, but it might as well be SCI secure compartmentalized
information just because you have the personnel, trying to remember what PII stands for.
You have that component of it.
You have medical data, you have HIPAA protections, you have legal protections, all these different
kind of caveats that go around any kind of a soldier data object you create.
So we want people being able to use the tools.
Yes, personally identifiable information.
Thank you guys.
I just had a great talk.
I had to go look it up too, because I say PII so frequently, I forget what the acronym
is.
Yeah.
Now we speak acronym.
It's like, we know what it means.
I just don't know what it stands for.
It's funny, as we're covering some of these questions, we get to a few of the others that
are asked in the chat here, but I know on this topic of PII, Sita, you had a question
in the chat on highly protected data.
Do you want to expand on that with your question?
Sure.
Thanks, Chris, for answering some of that already, but I guess even talking about breaking
through these different groups, so different departments, I'm sure, have different things
that they consider are protected or secure.
So how did you kind of deal with that challenge of trying to be like, these are the kind of
tools we've built to ensure security of data within different departments and to assure
that this is not just all going to be shared across every team or every group?
And was that challenging for you?
So we really spent a lot of time working on our data governance, our policies, and our
protections, and we spent a lot of time building that out in the person event data environment.
It's a secure environment.
You can't download anything.
You can't take anything out of the environment.
People get fussy about that because it makes it hard to access, and you've got to request
access through a project to certain things.
But that, at least, when people are realizing that nobody's going to pull everything into
a CSV file or a spreadsheet that's going to be sitting on their desktop, that provides
a certain amount of comfort.
We also just kind of restricted the access to any kind of identifiable information for
a lot of projects unless it's specifically needed.
So a lot of the work there can actually be done with de-identified information.
And we're trying to add more information back into circulation now, get people more access
now that we've kind of done the lockdown, but still, it's always a little bit of a thing
we watch.
There are so many great questions piling in here.
Marlene, I see you had a question in the chat.
Do you want to jump in here?
Oh, sure.
Hi, Chris.
Nice to see you again.
Thanks for joining us today.
Hi.
Hi, guys.
That is over beers.
Whoever's going to Posit Conf, we'll talk about my hiatus, but I've missed you all dearly.
Even if we've met for two seconds on these chats, just know that you guys are an integral
part of my week.
So please take a little hug for yourself in that.
Anyway, so Chris, I digress.
I'm just kind of interested in what's a soft skill that you've started to really appreciate
from your team here?
Because we always talk a lot about the technical aspect, right, and the skills that are attributed
to being a good programmer and or data scientist.
But I think there's so much that has to be kind of focused on about what aids in all
of that stuff, right?
So yeah, what's a soft skill that maybe you've kind of learned to appreciate more and more
with your team?
So a lot of it kind of unearthed itself when we were doing our data literacy, and it's
teaching.
I mean, we have to have people who have the soft skills that support being able to teach.
It's like, how can you connect with somebody?
How can you kind of empathize with them enough to be able to see where they're coming from
with their question?
How do you put the process that you're trying to describe or the result you're trying to
describe in an accessible context, kind of do those understanding checks?
I mean, it sounds very soft in this context, but it's a critical piece of being able to
translate our solutions to a decision maker who, if a decision maker can't really use
our data or decisions or understand it, it's a tree that fell in the woods.
So we've really kind of emphasized that teaching ability.
Yeah.
And I think something magical happens, I mean, especially for the rubber ducky programmers,
right?
When you're explaining a problem to somebody else, I think some magic happens there, even
for our understanding and or our development of aha moments.
So anyway, thanks for that chiming in.
I'll pass the baton.
Good to see you again, Rachel.
Thanks.
Thank you all for joining.
So nice to see everybody here.
I'm scrolling up through some of the questions, and thank you so much to the Posit team in
the background helping me gather everything.
But Ralph, I see you asked a question a bit earlier.
Do you want to jump in here?
Yeah, thank you.
Morning.
So Ralph Asher, I'm a Marine, and just thinking about my experience in entry-level training
both as a student and as an instructor in that, and it was very industrial and it was
one-size-fits-all.
And I was curious if anything that your team's doing is informing that, and even maybe before
that in the recruiting environment.
Thank you.
Oh, goodness.
I could speak on that a lot.
I would love to dig into how we structure our professional military education so that
it's not the one-size-fits-all.
We're thinking, I mean, the way we're rolling out the different data competencies, I think,
is going to help a little bit with that, because one of the things we wanted to do was have
all kinds of different levels, all kinds of different learning paths, figure out how to
make this accessible and how to make this apply to people's, you know, what were they
going to use the most, that we kind of front-load that to give them the confidence and competence
they need.
Sometimes, I mean, that's just the conceptual piece of how to ask a good data question,
and we workshop with people through what that looks like.
There's a lot of data storytelling and how to read, you know, graphs, how to read statistics,
how to be a good critical consumer of all of the things that we see in the news.
Then we start getting into some of the more hands-on skills, but, you know, kind of at
your question, in terms of your question, that's something I would like to go after.
I think our Combined Arms Center commander, General Beagle, is going after that, but it's
a work in progress.
I see, Alan, you had a question about the different teams working together, and I would
love to have you ask that next.
Yeah, sure.
Thanks, Rachel.
Hi, Chris.
I'm curious, in my experience, it's hard sometimes to be able to, like, sort of celebrate achievements
or innovative things that, like, folks on my team do because there's sensitivity about
how much we can share, sometimes even internally, but for sure, externally with, like, the broader
world of data engineering and data science, and I imagine that's really acute for you,
but I don't know if that's the right assumption.
I'm curious if you've got ways to sort of manage that and deal with that sort of dilemma
of how do you help your team feel like they belong to a community, but keep the right,
you know, borders between, like, you know, oversharing and keeping the right level of
discretion and sensitivity and stuff.
Yeah, no, that is an excellent question, because one of the things that I've had to do over
the past two, three, four years is be the Army's spokesperson for people analytics and
how we're using data, how we're modernizing promotions, how we're doing all this stuff.
A lot of that is extremely sensitive, and it's hard being able to talk about what we're
doing, especially to an expert audience, when we can't go into the nuts and bolts of how
we built out the particular program.
We've really tried to, you know, put together the nuts and bolts in terms of competencies.
You know, we can talk all day about how we use texturing analysis to automate the initial
screening for man selection now, don't necessarily tell you the rubric that we're using to judge
these things, because we don't want that to necessarily get out.
That's kind of a rough example, but we do try to be transparent, and part of being transparent
with the force about what they're doing, what we're doing with their data, especially when
it's their personal data, is important.
I don't know if that's a more of a non-answer, but I kind of tapped answer on it.
We try to talk about as much as we can.
Yeah, I think it's interesting to know that you've got the same dilemma, and I think I
saw Mark pop up the note, like that kind of question probably holds for lots of HR analytics
stuff, like broadly, and it applies for us in areas like R&D, and how we solve manufacturing
problems and stuff like that as well.
It's tricky to figure out that right balance, so I appreciate it.
Thanks.
Yeah, no, no worries.
We do try to kind of come up with mock-up versions of some of the algorithms we use
that we can put publicly on Git.
There is a publicly accessible version of the retention prediction model we use, just
the base interval forecasting engine out on Git.
The more I think we can develop those, then we also have multipurpose models, and we can
get the community to critique how we put it together in the methodology.
Cool.
Thank you.
I imagine that link to that Git example is going to be something people are interested
in.
Yeah, as soon as I can, I'll shoot it over to you.
You can share it with the group.
Yeah, I can put it up with the recording, too.
Awesome.
Katherine, I know you had a question that kind of touched on what Alan said, but I just
wanted to make sure to see if you wanted to expand on that a bit, or if that answered
your question, too.
Yeah.
My question kind of centers around the fact that this is not a problem unique to the Army
or any industry in general, but is there some sort of higher-level cross-branch innovation
for HR people leaders that maybe your team is a part of?
Or do you share any of that with the Air Force, the Navy, any of those other kinds of military
organizations that you might have access to?
Yeah, so we reach out to AppWorks and SoftWorks.
A lot of their innovation is not necessarily in how they're building.
They do build a lot of prototypes the same way we do for different tools we're trying
to roll out, but a lot in the contracting space.
We've had to pull in expertise in that.
We've talked with the Navy Director of Military Personnel Management, and he's very interested
in sharing some of the things that they've done for MyNavyHR with us and getting a readout
on what we've been doing for automating and updating our promotions and performance.
We have a lot of, and I think this is probably common everywhere, we have a lot of these
little networks built, but it's very unofficial.
I don't think you could make an official innovation network, although we are tied in with Defense
Innovation Unit and the National Security Innovation Network for some of the things
that we're working on.
But the rest of it is just kind of point to point.
It's a small space we're working in, at least on the DOD side and in the Army side.
It's a small enough space that we work in that we kind of know who's working in it,
and if we don't know somebody personally who's working on a particular problem, someone in
that network does.
So we've been lucky.
Thank you.
I see there was an anonymous question that said, apart from the NLP that you shared,
what are some other typical analysis that you do?
Oops.
Lost you for just a second.
Can you repeat the last part of that question?
Sorry.
The question was, apart from the NLP example, what are some other typical analysis that
you do?
Well, one of the programs that we're working on is just a big neural net that takes in
all our personnel data and rolls out a prediction vector of how likely someone is to retreat
from service over time.
So we do a lot of retention analysis.
We're trying to figure out how to improve on an existing simulation that shows how our
distribution could get backed up.
We want to try to forecast what our force is going to look like, our force inventory
is going to look like over five years, because obviously, you probably heard in the news
about the recruiting issues.
Issues sounds too kind, but I'm on camera, so I'll just say recruiting issues.
But that's going to leave a little bit of a trough in the force, even if we recover
from it in the very near future, it's still going to be something that we have to build
our inventory around over the next five, 10 years.
So we want to be able to take a look at what that looks like and prioritize skill development
and assignments accordingly.
So we're trying to build some of those forecasting models.
Then we're trying to work with a number of different elements, we're working with the
Army Software Factory on just getting data shared into applications that'll make it easier
for folks to do things like finding childcare, PCS, et cetera, permanent change of station
I don't want to speak in acronyms.
Thank you very much.
Let's see, I feel like I'm firing questions away at you, we have so many great questions.
Let's see.
No, they're asking some great stuff.
This is fun.
One other, oh, let's jump over to your question, Deepsha, do you want to jump in here?
Sure, thanks, Rachel.
Thanks, Chris.
I think a lot of it you've already answered, but as you started to build your team, are
there success stories that you were able to share with your leadership or other teams
that you're trying to get data from to say, look what we're capable of if you cooperated
to get that momentum and buy-in going?
Yeah, that was one of the biggest things we had to do initially was to show value.
I mean, we wanted to turn on, find projects that were kind of quick wins that we could
say, hey, look how much easier this is to answer with data and trying to make that business
case to leaders.
One of the things that we used, I worked for about two years on a structure to personnel
mismatch program because we were trying to figure out with all the rapid changes for our
new structure, why did we have a force that looked very different from the structure that
we required?
And the answer was, obviously, the senior leaders can say, I want to build this type of
organization. The requirements are built, and it takes much longer for the supply to catch
up. So as an argument for data-driven talent management, where we look at attribute-based
assignment versus branch and a grade, like, look how much we can reduce the gap in what we
have versus what we assign, because we have these skills here.
They're just coded under another specialty.
If we make some of these positions more immaterial, then we have a lot more assignment
options and the ability to fill that talent requirement.
So that one was fairly easy.
We did it with existing data, existing position analysis.
We have much more in-depth understanding of the requirements now, but we were able to show
very quickly, it's like, OK, all of these stationing issues that we thought initially were
a problem, much less of a problem.
It's a great example.
Thank you, Chris.
Thank you.
And thank you.
And I echo Arian's comment, love the idea of quick wins projects and kind of spending some
time thinking about what those could be in our own organizations, too.
Brad, I see you have your hand raised here.
Do you want to jump in?
Sure.
A lot of focus is being paid to AI and machine learning and data mesh and data fabric.
And those are, I feel like, advanced concepts, XYZ and the alphabet.
And if you don't do the ABCs, the XYZs aren't going to turn out very well.
Do you guys currently have a platform around either data catalog or governance that helps
people find the right data at the right time and the right reason and use it appropriately?
So we've rolled one out.
It doesn't have the kind of use that I would like it to have.
It's the enterprise EDSC, enterprise data system catalog.
So it should have everything registered in it that we have and that we're collecting.
And if we could get more people accessing it, I think that would go toward a lot of our
problems.
The hard part is we're not using the tool directly in with the data systems where that
data is stored.
So we have to manually update it.
But it's something that we've considered.
We've identified that as a need.
And having it, one of the things I'm looking for is a more intelligent data catalog that we
could roll out.
I think this question kind of touches upon this as well, that George asked what systems
are using to share data with people?
Is that a different use than what we're talking about now?
So a lot of it is no point to point transfer.
We do just extract transfer load and we've got a number of our systems talking to each
other through APIs.
But otherwise, we just have to figure out all kinds of different ways to get the data
sent to the data science environment that we're using.
It's not always easy.
I mean, we were at the point where they were emailing or they're not emailing, but where
they were physically mailing hard drives.
So we're trying to get away from that, obviously.
Yeah.
An anonymous question, interesting question on Slido is how does your team build their own
professional portfolios for when they may move on to a new job?
Is how can they show what they've done without sharing protected info?
Yeah, we've we've talked about that a lot.
And the way I've kind of treated the work my team does and because I've been in the
position and even though this is a new team, a lot of the team I'm working with was one
I worked with for three and a half years in Army Talent Management with Army People
Analytics. And then a couple of years prior to that in G1, I treat all my new hires like
like they're grad students coming in and they're going to come, they're going to
explore the data, they're going to get familiar with the data sets we use, get familiar
with the business processes, and then they kind of will find something that works as a
thesis project.
So like what is the thing that grabs them?
What is the thing that's the most interesting?
What's most suited to their capabilities?
And we've really kind of built things around that.
We've been lucky in that there's been so much to do that we could align people to the
projects that they are most interested in.
The thing that we're trying to work out is, you know, what happens if we have projects that are
prioritized that don't have the same grab?
But that's kind of how I have it.
I have this whole laundry list of things that I want to get after.
And I kind of like, you know, your grad advisor did with their research projects and like,
hey, let me point you in this direction, go research this a little bit, develop this
program or this problem a little bit more.
Let's see if that grabs you.
Yeah, that's an interesting idea.
Yeah, that's an interesting idea, like the thesis project for new people coming in.
And I see there's a conversation kind of happening in the chat as well about like, well,
adding on to that idea of quick wins.
And then, Alan, I saw you mentioned something about how you do onboarding where people can
contribute right away.
Would you want to jump in here and share that?
Sure, I don't think I don't have a ton to add.
We just really try conscientiously to think about as someone's coming onto the team or
someone's joining the organization, how do we set them up so that they have something
meaningful to contribute as soon as possible so they don't feel like they're waiting to
like become credible for a year before people feel like they can contribute?
And so it's just really important to give people ways to feel successful soon.
And Chris, I was also reacting to that sort of incoming grad student kind of approach.
I think that's such an interesting model to to set that up to say, like, explore this,
find something interesting, dig into it.
We'll see if we can make a project out of it.
It's really cool.
And I also appreciate the dilemma of like, OK, we have to prioritize that against the
portfolio as well.
Now, I like the idea of incorporating the quick wins, too, because that's basically the
kind of stuff we have that new people could get after.
Like this is this one is I hate using the term low hanging fruit, but this one's kind of
primed, ready to go.
Jump on this, chew on it, use it to get familiar with the data.
And then we kind of go and develop from there.
OK, I might need help with this acronym.
Maybe a Slido question is how have you navigated OPM requirements as you seek to
modernize recruitment and retainment, retainment strategies?
Yeah, office personnel management.
So we really just had to get into the same way we did the military side, the letter of
the law. It's like, what are these things actually say that we must do and what is
written in DOD or army policy or something that's just more of like a legacy?
Like we really try to go back to some of these things and talk about what the ground
truth is. We haven't really had much of an issue modernizing, at least on the data
side, because of all the direct hire authorities that we have.
We've really tried to push also towards doing more return hires, which scares people in
government. They're like, oh, you mean they're not going to make this a career?
People are working in the space, don't want to spend a lifetime in the same job anyway.
You know, they're going to come in, they're going to do a thing, they're going to pick a
next thing. And you can see if that piece is, you know, that particular position is
validated at the same level because the projects mature.
You might need some entry level folks or you might need some folks to do data
development, data cleaning.
And then after that, you'll realize you've got a different use for that data, different
project, the composition of your project team is going to change.
So we've really tried to use the most flexible processes we have within the existing
policies. But we're not afraid to kind of go up to OSD and say, hey, guys, we might want to
rewrite this thing a little bit.
Look at what we could do if you rewrite it.
Here's our proposed language.
Just fine. I noticed in your your bio, you talk about your team conducting research and
doing experiments, the prototype as well.
And I was wondering, how do you create that culture where it's OK to do these
experiments? And I'd love to hear a little bit about that.
Getting your bio, like let's not throw a bunch of money at this.
Let's try it first. I can try it for you for free.
And you can figure out how much money you want to spend on the result.
I mean, some of them are looking at different data integration in the selection boards.
As we are doing that, we just have the board members stay on a couple of extra days, do a
quick rundown with them and pilot some of the new look and feel of the board and see how
much it changes their voting from the previous version.
And we are looking at things like voter inter-reliability.
We're able to explore things that we haven't been able to explore before.
And then we bring the findings back again, kind of looking at the quick wins.
We find the things that are legit findings, bring those back to senior leaders and go,
hey, guys, we tested this.
But look at all this other stuff we found.
There's more experiments.
Let's go after this. Let's get them excited about it.
We hype it up. And some of it's like it's not necessarily world changing right from the
get go. But again, kind of the teaching and communicating piece we were talking about
before, we've got to sell them on like, hey, here's this is just step one.
This is just version one. If we keep developing this, think about what we could do.
I love that, that messaging.
That's great. Caitlin, I see you had a question here in the chat.
I was thinking it might be helpful for you to introduce yourself as well.
Yeah. Hi. So I'm Caitlin.
I'm a customer success here, rep here at Fawcett.
And I work with public sector customers mainly.
So I've done a lot of work with Army different, mainly SOCOM, Special Forces Operations
Command. So that's a little bit about me.
But my question was, so are there instances of not having enough data, soldier data
that, you know, that is and how currently is HRC collecting that data?
So I'm sorry, go ahead.
Yeah, I want to add in just to continue on, like how how does your team handle when there's
not enough data?
So we have a ton of data doesn't necessarily mean it's the right data.
And as we're going through these models, that's that was actually what kicked off our
assessment program. It's like I don't have enough in people's files to be able to say
what their what their talent attributes are.
And so we go over to our research entities, Army Research Institute, Army Research Labs
and say, you guys got any kind of existing studies that we can peel a couple things off
of and take a look at and maybe experiment and go collect some more data with you guys
on this? We've had a really good partnership with them on it.
It's also allowed them to kind of modernize how they're approaching research because
they've got these things that they can peel off and show quick wins from their findings
rather than it's like this five year study that all the leadership is going to change
out before it's done.
And leadership generally, you know, they generally kind of treat that with distrust.
Chris, I saw something you had posted on LinkedIn.
I think it was maybe like a few days ago about like the importance of being able to take
time off and to be fully off during that time.
And I saw you were asking some advice to other people from your LinkedIn network, too,
and was just wondering like what your thoughts are on that and what you're you're
learning from your own network, too.
Well, that's kind of the fun part about this network.
I love throwing questions out there and just saying, hey, guys, I'm human.
I don't I do a lot of things right.
I've been put in a position because, you know, you can wave your awesome flag all day.
But it's also like I screw up a lot of things.
I am horrible at taking time off.
You know, I am I will compulsively go and check things.
If not, you know, I've got my Mike Carroll, who's our lead for procurement, but he's also
my accountability buddy there.
He's just like, I see you. I see you on teams.
Get off. Go home.
Um, so I love throwing things like that out to the community and just saying, hey, you
know, I'm not the only person who's dealing with this.
And this is a professional wellness thing that I think all of us can benefit from the
discussion on. Let me throw it out there.
You guys tell me what works for you.
And a lot of it kind of came back that same thing.
It's like we need that time to do an active or inactive recharge.
Sometimes it's like doing yoga or cross training when you've been trying to ramp up for
a race. You know, you've got to do something, but make it something that's not work.
So, you know, trying to figure out those good substitutions or those complimentary
activities. And we talked earlier about, you know, was one of my favorite things to do.
Not at work. I love hiking, love cooking, love going to the beach.
And I think we've got to let ourselves know that not only is it OK to have hobbies, not
everything has to be work and hustle, but those things actually complement your ability
to refresh, recharge and do your job.
So I think it's hugely important and always trying to figure out ways to get better at it.
I love that idea of having an accountability buddy, too.
And like when we see our our friends at work are on Slack or on Teams or whatever, when
they're supposed to be off just saying, hey, what are you doing here?
Go message me.
Yeah, my boss is really good at that general joke.
You'll see me on Teams. He goes, why are you on Teams?
Go be with your family. Go away.
And so conversely, I'm just like, you better be TEY, boss, because otherwise, why are you
calling me?
Right. Mike, I see you had a question in the chat a bit earlier.
Want to jump in here?
No, not really, because now my focus is on this pay time off question.
I think we should carry on with that thread.
Well, OK. Anybody else have thoughts to share on that?
I see a lot popping up in the chat and resources.
Yeah. OK, so so since you called me out, Rachel, I'll jump.
So this is a personal experience and I agree wholeheartedly that time off should be time
away from work. But the kind of personal anecdote is how many times do I see a quick
question? Hey, I've got a quick question on Teams and I'm like, oh, yeah, I can answer
that. And it'll only take a couple of minutes.
And I'll just help this because that will unblock that person.
Right. So you just fire off a quick, oh, this is where you find that thing.
Right. But the other thing is that if you don't do that, they don't sit there blocked for
the 24, 48, 72 week long that you're at the office.
They find the solution themselves.
You know, so it's almost like, well, yes, I've been very helpful and have answered this
question quickly, but actually I've taken my brain from doing the thing that I was doing
to answering a work question and then I've got to come back to the kind of out of office
brain. It's hard.
Well, there's a big part to that, too, where it's like a little bit of parking that's the
wanting to be helpful, but also the you know, there are lots of people who could do this.
There are a lot of people could answer this question or there are lots of people like on my
team. I've got a team of amazing, awesome people who can handle almost like ninety nine
point nine percent of the things out there.
It's like there's a little bit of guilt.
Am I dumping my work off on somebody else for this time I'm taking off?
But at the same time, it's just like, you know, I need I need to give them the same the
same respect when they go on leave and know they're not dumping off their work.
I'm helping them carry stuff or at least kind of put it in a holding pattern until they get
back. I've noticed with taking time off, I I can't use that time to read work books
either, because then I will be on the beach thinking about like, oh, I should work on
this project or oh, here's an idea.
I want to go write it down.
But Jonathan, I see you had some thoughts about this in the chat, too.
You want to jump in or you don't have to keep it in the chat, too.
Hi. Yeah, I just I'm I'm a strong advocate of people being away when they're away.
And something that I've noticed, people will use your your email inbox as kind of a
placeholder for things that they want you to address when you come back.
So you come back to an inbox of, you know, three hundred and fifty emails, you know, a
mixed bag of things that you need, things that you don't need to see, you know, things
that you're copied on just for an FYI.
So I put in my out of office explicitly that I'm not responding to anything that's sent
while I'm on PTO and that if people want me to address something to just delay send it
until I get back.
Yeah, delay send is a awesome function.
That's a great idea. I hadn't I hadn't thought of that before.
I've seen some people out of office say something about like adding urgent to the
subject line so they know like which emails they need to get to first.
Mm hmm. Yeah, but delaying sounds better.
Let's see. Any other thoughts on this topic before we we shift gears?
Seth, I see you had some thoughts on this.
Yeah, that just got brought up exactly like five seconds after I read that.
But it's good to know that someone else likes that, too.
Great. Well, keep sharing the resources and ideas there in the chat, too.
And when when we get to the last 10 minutes here, I want to remind people if there were
questions earlier that we maybe missed in the chat or like a mid conversation, feel free
to raise your hand here on Zoom or maybe even just like copy and paste those questions
over just so we see them again there, too.
But Caitlin, I see you had a.
Yeah, we always have a big party there in the chat.
Caitlin, I think you had another question a little bit earlier.
Yeah, I just wanted to ask, are there any like impacts that the Army has changed due to
the work with this new team that you have or maybe people analytics that team that we
see in the Army today that are directly from the work that you were doing?
I think the biggest one is just getting rid of the additional selection boards.
I mean, we've taken those and that's about up to eight weeks of time where we have a
bunch of sitting in a room, which is like, OK, well, just they're going into an
assessment based on this invitation that's going to get the in-depth detail and they're
going to go into interviews.
They're going to go into all these things.
The file scrub, the automatic kind of scoring of these things that they spend all this
time on, they don't need to do that.
We can automate that.
And we did we automate it.
We validate it with the branches just to make sure it makes sense.
We get that human back in the loop.
But that's going to free up a ton of time, but it's also uncovered a lot of things that we
need to do with performance management.
Otherwise, I mean, just kind of the introduction of the the two way market that HRC is
using, using the preference assignments.
We've we're about to pilot a randomized controlled trial for retention incentives using
the retention prediction model that we have as kind of an a priori statistical indicator
whether or not someone is eligible for retention.
And then if they take one of these incentives and sign an additional duty service
obligation, we know it's like, OK, that's a win.
We can get a statistical lift prediction from these pilots on how likely these different
incentives are to keep people.
So I think once we get that rolled out, it's going to have a lot of impact.
But we're at the point where we've got the model built.
We've got the retention incentives kind of picked.
Now it's time to do the experiment.
Great.
That sounds that's awesome.
I'm really looking forward to seeing all of these changes happen for the I also actually
for those on the call today, I work part time for the Texas Army National Guard, so I
definitely have like a personal side interest and in all the work that Chris is doing.
So thank you.
Thank you.
Chris, I thought it might be interesting to to learn a little bit more about your own
personal journey, too, and in getting into this role of piloting and piloting.
And I know that you had this role of leading the HRC 2030 vision, and I was wondering
if it was was there a specific moment or something that kind of led you to wanting to
lead this, this initiative?
It was a it was an interesting ramp up because undergrad, my undergrad was in operations
research. I commissioned as an engineer, so I really didn't touch anything until I went
back to grad school and went back to grad school and studied complexity science.
I did a lot of event simulation, probabilistic design stuff that doesn't really come into
the people enterprise, went and taught that at West Point for a while.
And then my first job as an operations research and systems analyst was working theater
security cooperation and building partner capacity, kind of counterterrorism stuff for
Indo Paycom.
Then my branch pulled a fast one on me and said, we're going to send you to the Army G
one. So he sent me to G1 for I don't know anything about HR.
I don't know. I'm not a personalist.
OK, well, I guess I better figure this out.
And that kind of was the best thing that could have happened to me because I was the
Napoleon's corporal sitting there in the corner going, why do you do this?
What is it? This doesn't make sense.
Why is this thing here? Why are we using Excel spreadsheets where we've got an environment
where you can house all this? Oh, because it doesn't have the data in it.
How do I get the data put in it?
And it just you know, this is kind of the culmination of eight years of curiosity and
building things and asking questions and trying to get things simulated and big problems in
space that wasn't really heavy in the data sphere being answered by data.
And now we have got secretaries focus on it.
We have a lot of different focuses coming in that are leading us to be more data driven.
And when the opportunity came up to not just keep working on it, because I started people
analytics and, you know, we got I didn't start it completely from scratch.
We took it, the human capital, big data program and rolled it up under an existing
office that was actually going to do make use and figure out how to build some serious
models out of some of this data we were using.
I did kind of the same thing when I was a talent management.
I built a little startup within there that was churning out of these data products.
And to me, this was kind of the opportunity to do the same thing within HRC is to sell my
other startups corporate.
And I'm going to go over and do this other little startup.
I love like just thinking of you asking all those questions.
They're like, why are we doing it this way?
And it's making me think of a question I love to ask people is, is there a piece of career
advice that you've either given or received that you'd like to share with us?
It's a tricky one to give, especially in the army, where you're like your first five to
eight years. It's all about, you know, conformity and compliance.
And after that, all of a sudden they kind of expect you to flip a switch and go, OK, now
you're in charge of things, be creative.
And a lot of people who just kind of get gummed up in the works, they don't know how to do
it. I think I tell people to find, you know, we were talking about the hobbies and the
other things that we want to do to exercise our creative energy, kind of those
opposites, muscle, mental muscles.
And I just tell people, you know, it's going to sound silly, but, you know, exercise your
creative pursuits, find a way to exercise that creative energy so that, you know, you
can keep the brain, the brain flexible, especially if you want to go into spaces like
this where it's not charted.
It's very ambiguous.
There's not a whole lot of the last three jobs I had didn't exist.
They were created and I got stuck in them.
And there's no book, there's no notes, there's no anything about how to do this
particular job. I mean, so I had to go out, you know, like we were talking about before.
If you're not there to answer a question, the person's going to go find the answers.
So I'm going to go out and talk to other HR professionals and see how they're doing this.
I'm going to go talk to other data science professionals and see how they're doing this
and put together, you know, kind of a hodgepodge answer to try out and experiment.
And I mean, this is just a kind of a great place for it.
I saw a pop up in the comments.
Data science is a great place to be curious.
If I were in my home office, I have a poster of Sherlock Holmes from the movie up behind
because he's always like, data, data, data.
I know I need data.
I need to solve problems.
I want us to go and, you know, dig into this.
I want to solve a case.
I'm going to be a data detective.
So it just gets you excited.
I mean, find a way to exercise those creative pursuits because they're fun.
And you'll find, I think you'll use those to find that kind
of creative fun in your work also.
I love that.
Thank you, Chris.
And I can like hear the excitement from you as you're explaining that too.
I love it.
I love my job.
I won't lie.
One other, I know we have a few minutes here, but one other question that was asked
anonymously was how do you stay updated with the latest and greatest tech that you can
use and enable your team with?
Conversations like this, getting out to, you know, I've made the argument that the
army, because we've pulled back on conferences for a while.
It's like, we need to go to professional conferences.
We need to go to industry conferences.
We need to go talk to people who are doing this work.
We need to go back to school.
We need to go do training with industry.
You know, we need to be able to go and find the people who are leading
the edge and create those networks.
So, you know, when we do have a problem and we're like, okay, what is, what is
industry doing, we go, who's leading in this edge, what kind of technology could
we take, or what do we need to develop and how do we do it that you've got
a phone, a friend available.
And I won't say I'm always the most up to date and don't have a little bit of a
pass on the army, just because a lot of our stuff is legacy and it doesn't
necessarily take the most cutting edge thing to solve those problems.
But I do like knowing what's going on, where the field is going.
Absolutely.
We keep a running list of books and recommendations from data science
hangout leaders and everybody here.
Well, when I say we, Libby is actually the one doing it.
So do you have any recommendations for books or things you're
reading now we should check out?
I've got a whole laundry list.
Um, uh, it's probably been brought up a few times, but if you're doing any
kind of transformation and modernization, the unicorn project is a must read.
Um, I'm reading, um, farther, faster and far less drama by Janice Frazier.
Right now.
It's about change management and transforming organizations.
That's another good one.
And I got recommended, um, Jeff bears, um, by, uh, it's called hug your
haters and it's about customer experience and customer service.
But the reason I love it is it teaches you to seek out actively seek out
criticism and critics and find the people who are just making noise, but
also find the ones who have a legitimate complaint and figure out how you can
solve their problems for them.
So that's, I love that.
Thank you for reminding me of that book.
I heard of it like a few months ago and completely forgot.
I need to go add that to the list too.
Well, I see lots of good detective books popping up in the chat too.
So yeah, it seems like there's a lot of us here who wanted to be detectives
or Sherlock Holmes, Nancy Drew at some point in our life.
So it has probably had some
clues.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Well, thank you so much, Chris, for joining us today.
It's been a pleasure hearing from you and learning from your experience.
Thank you for all that you do.
Well, thank you so much for letting me join.
This is awesome.
Have a great rest of the day, everybody.
Thanks so much for joining us.
We'll see y'all next week.
Cheers.
Hi, everybody.
Thanks for joining us.
We'll see y'all next week.